intramural situation. And actually A&M had an
excellent intramural program, which Penberthy,
who I think was from Ohio State, really sort of was
very innovative and so forth. What were the most
important, the most respected activities in the
intramurals? What sports were most?
Well, actually probably intramural football
was. And then intramural basketball, but they
also had everything. They had wrestling, and
they had boxing, and the outfits competed very
vigorously for this intramural championship,
which went on and wasn't awarded until the end of
the year. But for instance, when I was a freshman,
They had to have so many entrants in wrestling. I'd
never wrestled before in my life. And so I went down
and entered the wrestling deal and went up against
some guy from West Texas. He picked me up and we
grappled around for a few minutes and finally he
threw me out of the ring and broke my collarbone,
which ended my wrestling career. Was that your
freshman? My freshman year. I think basketball
season was over by then, so it didn't interfere
with my basketball thing. Where did you get
treated for that injury? At the hospital there. I
forget the doctor's name. Marsh? Dr. Marsh,
wasn't it? And Mom Claghorn, she was the principal
nurse over there. Describe her. I recall Mom
Claghorn, she was a, a big woman who took charge of
everything. I mean, she, her word was, was
indisputable, let's say. Yeah. Want a coffee,
Reba, Phil? We're talking about the hospital.
Right, right. But, yeah, Dr. Marsh treated,
treated everything, and, but Mom Claghorn was the
was the really, as I say, a big woman and
her
decision was not disputed by anybody. Where did
you and your buddies, if you had any unscheduled
time during the day, where did you go if you had some
off hours?
On the off hours, we'd go to the North Gate, as it was
called. What was up there? Not very much. Just cold
drinks and I think there was a movie theater up
there too. Campus theater. But there were cold
drinks and so forth. And then let's see, the guys
with,
let's see, large amounts of testosterone,
managed to go into town and find some
girls there. A lot of them ended up marrying the
gals they met in Bryan. Now, during the day, what
did y'all do at the Y? At the Y, you could play
ping-pong. And you could also cash checks. Mr.
Cashin, as I recall, had the drugstore there. And
the drugstore was adjacent to the YMCA. Describe
Mr. Cashin as much as you recall about him. I recall
Mr. Cashin was a guy with horn-rimmed glasses who
actually looked very closely at the check he was
trying to cash. But he ran the drug store. And he ran
the Y. Did you all have a nickname for him? Not that I
recall. One
of the nicknames I remember, they had the guy that
used to hand out the uniforms and so forth in the
basketball park was a guy nicknamed Sarge for some
reason. Sarge had a nose that looked like W.C.
Fields. It had its ample supply of bourbon over the
years.
Let's see, where did you get your mail? Was it at the
Y or at the Northgate?
I think we had mailboxes over in the
administration building, but I'm not sure about
that. I'm hazy about that. What kind of errands did
a fish get to run for upperclassmen? Anything they
could think of. Go to the North Gate, get them food,
get magazines for them.
And actually, the way it was determined, they'd
haul a fish. An upper class would haul a fish, and
everybody would run to that room, and the last one
there had to run the air on it. During those early
months, where did you turn for advice about
academics? Who helped you if you couldn't figure
out this homework problem? Who did you turn to?
Well, actually, on homework,
in my fish year, I became friends with Hank Gruy,
who was a very smart guy. And especially in math. I
was always very good in English. But I would go to,
Hank later became the, he has his own consulting
firm, petroleum consulting firm. And he was
elected president of the Society of Petroleum
Engineers. And I remember one time getting stuck
on a calculus problem. I tried to work on about 830,
and I went over to Hank's room, which he was in the
engineers, and he had worked the problem and gone
to bed. But I turned to Hank on math as much as
anything. Now, your first semester, do you
remember how you did academically? I did well. I
think I was a distinguished student every year.
And you had gone to public high school? Yes. So you
were well prepared. I was well prepared. Like I
say, Barrett High School was a good school that I
graduated from. But actually in the country
schools I went to, the teachers wanted to teach you
something. And I had a good foundation. And I later
went to MIT as a graduate student and was accepted
there. And I thought it was sort of interesting. I
think there were five of us from my class that went
to MIT. And we all did well. I mean, we graduated
without any problem. In class, how did you and your
buddies dress? How did you behave? What was
normal? decorum for class? Well, there was no
disputing the professors at all. And, of course,
you were dressed in the uniform and you
paid attention and took notes and no disturbance
in class. Did you go to class every day? Oh, yeah.
What about going to sleep in class? Oh, the people
that did that, quite a bit. But actually, the
classes were well controlled.
As you got into
the subject that you were graduating in, those
classes got much smaller, of course, and you had a
lot of individual attention. In freshman year,
though, we had large classes like Tom Harrington
teaching this chemical. Were there some classes
for freshmen or sophomores that everybody
dreaded that were supposed to be real tough?
I can't answer your question exactly, but I
remember there were some classes they thought
were real easy, you know. What were they? Well,
physical education and actually,
I guess, in the early stages, bull tax, as it was
called, you know, was a military part of the deal.
And my mind just thinks about was the dog revelry
already there? Oh, yes. I think Reveille
appeared, I'm not sure it was my freshman year or
had been there a year. I think he'd been there a
year. But that little dog was a little black dog.
And the tradition was if that little dog came in
your room and jumped up on your bed to sleep there,
you had to go find another bed, you know. Did that
ever happen to you? No, it happened to friends of
mine, though. And there was no, you know, get off
the bed or anything, believe me. I mean, people
adhered to the, they wouldn't find another bed.
And as far as you all knew, where did Reveille, the
original Reveille, come from? Well, as I recall,
the little dog was hit by a car, and two of the guys
brought a, brought her back to the
vet's deal and the vets treated the little dog and
the dog survived alright and just sort of wandered
around the campus and also apparently was
attracted to the band and would bark when the band
would play and march with the band to the football
games. Went to class sometimes? Oh yeah, the
little dog would go to class and come in classes.
Ever allowed in Sabeasa? Oh yeah, the little dog
had free rein anywhere. That's what I've heard.
What about as a freshman, how soon was it before you
and your buddies got involved in Good Bull, in
pranks?
Well, of course, from the very first, they had a
tradition of drowning out people. And that
happened when you were a freshman. And actually,
if there's somebody in your battery that you
thought was brown-nosing, let's say, the guys
would get together and say, let's round out
so-and-so. So, sure enough, at night, after the
guy was asleep, They'd run under two or three
buckets of water and drown him out and run. They
never knew who had done that. Did you ever do or did
you ever participate in a drownout? Oh, yeah. Oh,
yeah. Did you get caught? No. No. Never did. Now,
the victim was usually in what class? Sophomore or
senior or what? Well, it could be in either class. I
mean, the freshmen themselves round out guys that
they thought were brown-nosing, let's say. So it
might even be another fish. Oh, yeah, another
fish. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. Describe, if you can,
your going to your first Aggie football game.
Describe that whole weekend and all that went on.
Well, I don't recall the first weekend, but I do
recall the TCU game. Because A&M hadn't beaten TCU
in 10 or 12 years, something like that. And so they
had a rally on the YMCA steps. And I remember he
introduced the football team. Joe Rout got up,
made a speech, and so forth.
But beating TCU at that time was a big deal. I'm
trying to think. The first football game, of
course, we had the tradition was standing up and so
forth. Did you all have a Yale practice the night
before? Oh, yeah. Where? Yeah, we had a Yale
practice the night before. Do you remember where
Yale practices were then? I don't remember. I
don't remember where they were. Then Saturday
morning you went to class. Yes, I recall Saturday
morning after class we were off Saturday
afternoon. So you were free to do things, catch up
on your... Did you all have, for going to the game on
Saturday afternoon, did you all march in to the
stadium?
I'm quite sure we did. I'm sort of hazy on that, but
I'm quite sure we marched in. Yeah, we marched
everywhere. And you stood up at the game. Oh, yeah,
you stood up at the game. All right, then did y'all
win that TCU game that year? I don't recall, except
I just recall the buildup beforehand. When you did
win the game, did you all capture the L-eaters?
Yeah, as I recall, we did. We threw them in the fish
pond. Then on a Saturday night, after a game or
anything else, where did you and your buddies go
your first year or two on a Saturday night? On a
Saturday night, A lot of guys went to a place called
Hard Liquor's. They had Hard Liquor's and drank
beer. I never was a much of a beer drinker, so I think
I'd go to a movie or something like that. But a good
many of these guys went to. Now during your first
year, you said your father had died when you were a
youngster. Your mother's still living. Right,
right. Who did you write to and who did you get mail
from? My mother, principally, and a couple of
girlfriends from Shreveport, and some that I met
on court trips. Describe a court trip. A court
trip, you'd come to Dallas, let's say, and you'd
check into a hotel usually about as many as could
get in a room, you know. Only a couple of guys would
sign for it, but really about four or five guys
stayed there at the office or somewhere. You'd
march up Main Street and have Yale practice in
front of the hotel, as I recall. And
then they were, and you usually In Dallas, you
usually met a bunch of girls that came down from
CIA. Anyway, usually after a court trip, you had a
correspondence going with somebody from Denton.
How did you make contact? Did you write to them
first? No, you sort of met them in the lobby of the
office, let's say. How did you pick the one that
interested you? Well,
just the, I'd say just the normal chemistry
between somebody, you know, that somebody that
conversation and so forth was, and maybe he'd take
them to dinner, whatever, and Did Aggies behave
pretty well around young ladies in those days? Oh,
yes. Yes, I think they did. I mean, there was a
different code at that time than now. I mean, there
was a respect for women at that time. Did any of your
student friends have a car? Only a few. Only a few
had cars. I remember one of them was the Mitchells
from Houston. And Johnny Mitchell and George,
they had convertibles, as a matter of fact, which
was a big deal at that time. What kind of
convertible? Do you remember? I don't remember.
They were just convertibles. Wow.
Big men on the campus were there. Where were the
student parking places then? I'm not sure, but I
remember there were places you couldn't park. I
remember Bobby Early, who I played on the tennis
team with, he had an A-model Ford, and he parked it
in a no-parking place. And anyway, they
confiscated the car and took part of the thing off
so he couldn't start the car. And he had to go down
and see the commandant before he could get the car
back, and he had to pay a fine.
Bobby did that.
Back to football. core trips went to Fort Worth and
Dallas and Houston and Austin. Of all of your
years, do you have any special memories of core
trips, plus or minus? Yeah, I think the core trip I
remember mostly is a TCU core trip because on that
core trip I met a gal named Frances Buster whose
father was a professor at TCU, and she later
married Davey O'Brien, as a matter of fact. But she
was really a cute little thing, and we
corresponded for maybe six or seven months,
something like that. But that's why I remember
that course. Do you remember how you met her? I
think I met in the lobby of the hotel, you know, one
of the hotels there. And anything, do you remember
any sad things on a court trip ever? Yeah, I
remember the sad thing, I remember Bobby Early,
he had signed up for was a room I think was in Dallas.
And this was, I think, his junior year. And anyway,
there were a whole bunch of, there was some, Bobby
was in A Troop Cavalry, and I remember, and they
were, but he was signed up for the room, but he
actually, actually didn't ever go to the room. He
went, he had some other friends, and he stayed with
them, ran into them, or some other thing, and these
other people really tore up the room. I mean, they,
so Bobby got nailed for it, And actually it cost him
his commission. And he was never there.
Do you remember your first silver taps? I don't
remember the first one. I remember I was so
impressed the first time I heard it. Describe why.
I think I understand, but make believe I didn't
understand why a silver taps was special. Well,
they blew silver towels when of course anybody
died, any cadet died, and I remember It was at night
and a cold clear night in the fall and the notes of
that bugle just seemed to be the only thing there
that really stirred up your emotions to think that
that one of your fellow cadets was remembered this
way. And was Silver Taps always taken seriously?
Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Nobody ever broke the rules?
Oh, no. Not that I know of. Make believe I'd never
been. Where was it held, and what happened? Well,
as I recall, it was just the bugler himself who was
there, and the bugle stand was in front of the
administration building then, and a big
megaphone, you know, and you could hear it all over
the campus. You were in your room when they blew it.
And then you came over, ceremony, and then went
back to your room? No, you just stayed in there. I
mean, there was no ceremony at all. Oh, really? No,
there was no ceremony. Oh, you all didn't gather?
No, no, no. There was no ceremony. You were just in
your room when the silver caps was blown. Did you
turn out the lights then after it was over? As I
recall, it was done at...
I really am hazy on that, exactly what happened,
but I remember you were in your room when they blew
it, but you knew who the cadet was that was being
honored. You knew that. And I'm not sure how you
knew that, but you knew that. Your freshman year,
you didn't go home, I presume, until
Thanksgiving? We went to, I think we went over, the
first time we went home actually was, A&M was
playing Centenary over in Shreveport. So, Bobby
Earley had this old A Model Ford. that he had
retrieved from the commandant.
So we drove over for the game, and that old car, the
problem was how much oil it used. You had to carry
several quarts of oil all the time. And cold? Man,
it was cold. But anyway, we went to Shreveport for
the game, and so that was sometime in the fall. Did
you entertain your buddies in Shreveport? Oh,
yeah, yeah. What did you do for them on Saturday
night? Do you remember? On Saturday night, I think
I took them to the Washington Urey Hotel, as a
matter of fact. I took Bobby, anyway. Bobby was a
very close friend. All right. Then did you go back
Thanksgiving? Back home, I reckon? I don't think I
went back home until Christmas, as a matter of
fact. Did you always take the train back and forth?
Yeah, you took the train, unless somebody was
driving back. But it was a pretty long trip then,
you know, so I took the train. And you wore your
uniform going and coming. Right, right. What did
you feel like on the train with you, wearing that
Aggie uniform? Well, you usually drew some
attention, you know, good or bad. Can you give some
examples of the good or the bad? Well, I'd say that,
you know, people that knew a little about A&M would
come up and say, I had a cousin that went here or so
and so, you know, and I got to go to the men's room.
Did anybody ever tease you when you were wearing
your Aggie uniform on the train or the bus? I'm sure
they did. I can't remember any particular
incidents, but I'm sure that must have happened.
But I can't remember any particular answer. All
right, summarize that. When you finished that
freshman year, how did you feel about being an
Aggie? Well, at the end of the freshman year, I felt
good. I felt, one, I had survived a really tough
year, and two, that I would now be a sophomore and
would have the privileges I didn't have before.
And I was pleased with the my academics at that time
and I thought I was progressing well toward a
degree and I loved the school after after that
first year and and people who were in the freshman
class with me that enrolled at the very first, they
either liked the school or they didn't, almost
from the very first. And one of the things that I
recognized at A&M at that time was that it wasn't,
they judged a person about not who he was, but what
he was. I mean, there's a difference in who and
what. For instance, one of my classmates was Bert
Hull. His father had built the tap line pipeline
from Texas up to New York. He was the president of
Texaco Pipeline Company. And he built the
pipeline in Saudi Arabia. And so Burt was, his
father was quite wealthy. But to illustrate what
I'm saying, he used to say, well, don't make old
Burt mad. They called him Balbo. Don't make Balbo
mad. his old man might run a pipeline right through
the mess hall. So somebody with, let's say, with a
certain amount of wealth really had to overcome
that to a certain extent. About how many started
out in your outfit, do you remember, as a freshman?
I don't remember, except that I would say at the end
of the year, I would just estimate that two-thirds
remained after the first year. Of those who did not
come back, about how many flunked out and how many
couldn't afford to come, didn't have the money, or
how many just didn't like A&M and went somewhere
else? I'd say about a third, a third, and a third.
One of my roommates was a fellow named Hudson
Vanloon. Hudson was from Shreveport. I'd known
him in high school. Hudson loved A&M, but he
flunked out. He flunked out every semester. and I
used to be somewhat jealous of Hudson because when
he and I would be walking down the sidewalk and we
occasionally would pass Dean Brooks who was
Hudson was in his in his school Dean Brooks knew
Hudson quite well he'd say Hudson how are you and he
didn't know who I was you know and Hudson had to go
see Dean Brooks about every two months but he
Hudson flunked out to and and he'd be uh He flunked
out three times, I think, but he loved A&M. The
academics were tough and the life was tough. I
think one thing in retrospect I observed was that
when you're together in a situation or situations
where the times are tough, no matter what they are,
You form a friendship there that is a bonding that
you'll never forget. The same thing happened in
the Army with people that you're under stress with
and you make friends with. Those type of
friendships are lasting. Did you feel those bonds
already in beginning to be in place in your
freshman year? Oh yes, freshman year. I knew that I
had friends there that I could call on in times of
trouble. Did you ever think about dropping out?
No, no. I never thought about dropping out. My
thought was I always wanted to take graduate
studies at MIT because of the reputation. And so my
whole emphasis was on making grades good enough so
that I'd be accepted in graduate school at MIT.
During that freshman year, do you have any idea how
much it cost? I don't know. My mother,
Fortunately, when my father died, he had just
taken out an insurance policy of $50,000. And he
died about three months later, a ruptured
appendix. But he left my mother with this $50,000
plus a cotton plantation of about 2,000 acres. And
my mother, being a schoolteacher, really
emphasized education. She took care of all the
bills. Did you have spending money? Yes. Oh, yes. I
had a certain amount. I had an allowance. What did
you spend that allowance on? Usually on Coca-Cola
and sandwiches and magazines and nothing very
exciting. But my mother sent me allowance every
month. Now, you went to the movie. Right. Gynon
Hall.